Leave it there. Leave it there. Let's
try a few little things. Firstly, what I
like to say is stacked like foot, knee,
hip, everything straight. And what
happens is the arms get in the way
usually. So you got a seemingly
comfortable stance, but actually your
feet are standing where your hands want
to grab the bar so that you're fighting
for that position and that pushes your
knees in.
>> Y
>> So I say bring your stance in slightly
closer. Good. Now from here, grab it in
the same position and think about
actively pushing those knees out into
the inside of your arms. Good. Next,
what I want you to do is set up here.
Take a big breath and then ribs down
like I'm going to punch in the belly and
you've got to flex those abs. That's the
brace that I want you to see. The next
thing I want you to think about is
lengthening those arms. See, this is
relaxed and that's as long as they can
go. Okay? So, actively reach down. Now,
take a big breath and ribs down. Good.
Now, grab the bar. Now, bend the knees
and reach the head towards the ceiling.
Look at my foot. Look at my foot. And
push the world away. Pull the bar into
your shins. Good. And again, pull the
bar back towards your shins. Nice. Just
one more.
Bend those knees. Pull the bar into your
shins. And put really nice.
>> That was easier.
>> It was easier. So, I think it's the the
approach as well of where you're bracing
your and you're bracing with your hips
up high and then you're kind of just
like trying to
>> What you mean?
>> So, I the way that I teach it is not a
hip hinge. So, you're really hip hinging
that first one.
>> Yeah. Right. So, it's like you're
arching your tail and it's and it's a
hip hinge. The way that I like to teach
it is when you're bringing ribs down,
bend your knees and you lock your torso
into position and then just push those
legs through the ground. Look at that.
Look how much nicer it was.
>> So much smoother.
[sighs]
>> And and in that one, your hips and your
shoulders rose at the same time.
>> Oh my god.
>> The set before the hips went and it's
kind of like it's it's too much focus on
hamstrings. You're right.
>> Whereas I want you to use more quads,
less hamstring, which is what you did on
the second set
>> is um yeah, you you locked your torso
position. That's that's the focus. Lock
the torso and just go bang rather than
hinging that weight up.
>> That was good. You may as well do a
mixed grip as well. You
>> think so?
>> Yeah. Otherwise, your grip is definitely
going to be the limiting factor.
>> Um bring your feet in a touch. So,
you're squirming them outwards a bit.
Don't do that. Good. Good. Good. Good.
Now, grab the bar on the line.
Little bit wider. Good. Sit. Bend the
knees. Knees out. Knees out. Knees out.
Pull the bar into your shins and push
the world away. Push the world away.
Good. And again.
Bend the knees. Push the world away.
Good. Good.
Bend the knees. Pull the bar into the
shins. Excellent. And relax. Good.
Nice.
Nice. Yeah. Nice. Nice.
>> I haven't lifted like that in a while.
>> Yeah. So, there was a few things you
went back to the way that you're bracing
with the hips up higher. Right. So, it's
a really weird thing that I teach with
the deadlift is to not think about
straight back. It's here. So, it's a
little bit of flexion here. And that's
the position right now. The way that we
straighten it is reach the head to the
ceiling. And and that's as straight as
we get. Right? Rather than thinking
about arching the tail, the moment you
arch the tail, you take your quads out
of the equation. From here, don't bend
like this. Ribs down and bend the knees
and grab it. Good. Now, knees out, knees
out. See how you you just lifted your
hips.
>> Yeah.
>> That's the habit you got to get out of.
When you lift your hips, you're not just
lifting your hips, you're anterly
rotating your pelvis. You're going like
this. You're going
>> Yep.
>> And now you got tension on the
hamstrings. I don't want tension on the
hamstrings. So, the cue I give is piss
up a wall, right? Good. Now, knees out,
knees out, head to ceiling. Head to
ceiling. Pull the bar into your shins.
Just push the world away. Push the world
away. Good. Nice. Nice.
>> That felt better.
>> Nice. That's a push, not a pull. Of
course, you can't not pull. There is
pull,
>> but the emphasis is push.
>> Right. The changes we've made is a
closer stance. Shins's an inch away from
the barbell. And you're going to look at
this. So I this is a cue that I have
three me three to four meters on the
floor in front and look at it. The head
stays there from start to finish. Hang
on a second. That's a bit to the side.
My apologies. Good. Ribs down. Grab the
bar. Knees out and pull the bar into
your shins. Big breath. Push the world
away. Push the world away. Beautiful.
One more. You got this. Let's go. Pull
the bar into your shins. Push the world
away. Yeah. Nice. Yeah. Good.
Good.
>> You all right?
>> Yeah. That was so fun.
>> Real nice. Real nice. 100 kilos.
>> Hip width stance. Shins an inch away.
>> Stretch your arms down. Ribs down. Let's
go. Pull the bar under your shins. Head
to ceiling. Bend those knees. Bend those
knees. Knees out. Knees out. Knees out.
Knees out. Arms long. Push the world
away. Excellent. Excellent. Let's go.
Nice. Pull the bar in and push. Nice.
Yeah. easier. Let's go. Drop. Reset.
Pull the bar in and push. Nice work.
Yeah. Yeah. Beautiful.
Yeah.
>> OMG.
>> Real nice. Excellent. Excellent.
>> Yeah. Great technique. So, I definitely
don't want this.
>> But I also feel like when I was watching
you, it was like a little bit too much
through the toes. And I think that's
where the the habit for you is now is.
And that's what caused your hips to lift
a little bit more.
>> So this is just a time thing. And
unfortunately that's your that's three
reps. That was heavy. It was great but
it was heavy. So to practice the
technique probably won't happen there.
>> Yeah.
>> It'll probably happen with you know like
70% of
>> Yep.
>> And then I can actually practice proper
tripod.
>> You should try it with 70%. Let's just
do 70 kg.
>> I know you just took the shin pads off.
>> I can pop them back.
>> Put pop them back on. Take the slack out
of the bar. Yes.
>> Right. So the feeling should be reach
your head towards the ceiling, put your
arms down by your side and and you
should feel that.
>> Right. So so that type of tension. So
it's tension. So I say bend the bar then
stand. Right. So that one of the reps
you went I went, you know, sit and then
stand. You went sit and then you went
and it kind of like you weren't taking
there was no tension taken out of the
bar. You know, you're listening to me
give you 17 cues at once. Do you know
what I mean? So I get it. But this is
why we got to do a couple of sets,
right?
>> No better.
>> You will. You will.
>> I just forgot.
>> You'll be perfect in in about 3 minutes.
Stretch down now. Stretch. Feel the
stretch. Stand.
Beautiful. Beautiful. Good. And again.
Sit into position. Stretch those arms.
Pull back. Nice. And again.
Pull back. Pull back. Push. Nice. One
more. One more. One more. Sit into
position. Pull the bar back. Push. Nice.
Yeah. Good.
Very good. Very good.
>> Take the slack out of the bar.
>> Very good. Yeah.
>> There's no jolting. Do you know what I
mean? When you haven't taken the slack
out of the bar, you can see just a
little jolt in your body.
>> I'd say I'd say do one more set. Do one
more set just to lock it in. Okay.
You're still stand up. Stand up. Stand
up. When you bend, you've got this thing
happening. We've got to get out of that.
That's turning your butt off.
>> Okay.
>> Right. So, it's kind of like just
automatically just just opening your
hips. It's open hips position, right?
So, it's feet closed but open. Yeah.
Good. Good.
>> Yes.
>> Open hips. Open hips. Open hip. Knees
out. Knees out. Knees out. Knees out.
Pull the bar into your shins. Tension on
the bar. Push the world away. Beautiful.
Beautiful. Good. Get in the position.
Push the world away. Nice. I want five
reps. Sit into position. I want smooth.
I want smooth. Yeah, good. Two more. Two
more. Two more. Pull back. Knees out.
Push. Yeah. Perfection. One more. One
more. Nice. Yeah.
Yeah.
>> You know what I like a lot about what
you're doing is I told her to keep her
eyes on the spot just once and you kept
that. So that's where the lock out, what
people do is when their eyes go all over
the place, the lockout's kind of like
when your eyes are up, the lockout ends
up here. they they lean back too far and
then they bend the knees. But when your
eyes are locked here, you go like this.
Boom. And and there's no excessive
leaning back or anything. So that was
really consistent on you every single
time.
>> Now something to practice.
>> That's perfect.
>> Have fun.
>> That's perfect. Now, next time I see
you, um, what did you say? 500.
>> That's a little crazy.
>> We're here for We're here for a good
time, not a long time. Maria
>> and uh and Maria, where do we find you?
Maria Barova.
>> Yeah, Maria. I'll give you a bit of a
mic.
>> You can find me at Maria Barova on
Instagram or the Clean Health Fitness
Institute page where we post a lot of
education.
>> So, um, yeah, click like, subscribe, all
that stuff and I'm going to see you guys
next time.